+++
+++

Effect[]
--------


* Duplicates all [pickups](/wiki/Pickup "Pickup") and pedestal [items](/wiki/Item "Item") in the current room, then disappears.


Notes[]
-------


* (Removed in Repentance) Using Diplopia on a [trinket](/wiki/Trinket "Trinket") will spawn another random trinket instead of duplicating the trinket.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Using Diplopia on a trinket does nothing.
* (Added in Repentance) Does not duplicate [(Rune of Jera)](/wiki/Cards_and_Runes "Rune of Jera") [Rune of Jera](/wiki/Cards_and_Runes "Cards and Runes").
* (Removed in Afterbirth †) Using Diplopia on an empty item pedestal will spawn another random item.
* If used in a [Shop](/wiki/Shop "Shop"), the duplicated pickups and items can be taken for free.
* (Removed in Repentance) If used in the [Boss Rush](/wiki/Boss_Rush "Boss Rush") room, all available items will be duplicated and all the duplicates can be taken (**this will still start the Boss Rush**); however, only one of the original items may be taken. Taking one of the original items does not cause the duplicates to disappear.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Only one duplicate can be taken.
* (Removed in Repentance) If used on the [(The Polaroid)](/wiki/The_Polaroid "The Polaroid") [The Polaroid](/wiki/The_Polaroid "The Polaroid") and [(The Negative)](/wiki/The_Negative "The Negative") [The Negative](/wiki/The_Negative "The Negative") after defeating [Mom](/wiki/Mom "Mom"), the duplicates can be taken without affecting the originals.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Only one duplicate can be taken.
* If item pedestal that is duplicated is visable as "?" (for example with the [Curse of the Blind](/wiki/Curse_of_the_Blind "Curse of the Blind")), duplicate will be visable as "?" until taken, just like the original item pedestal.
* (Added in Repentance) If used in a [Treasure room](/wiki/Treasure_room "Treasure room") on the alternate path, only one duplicate can be taken. However, this allows Isaac to essentially take both items.
* If used in a [Devil Room](/wiki/Devil_Room "Devil Room") or the [Black Market](/wiki/Black_Market "Black Market"), the duplicated items can be taken for free. The original items will still be offered at an HP price, and Deal with the Devil precedent will not be obtained.
* (Removed in Repentance) If used in an [Angel Room](/wiki/Angel_Room "Angel Room") that has multiple [item](/wiki/Item "Item") pedestals, the duplicated items can be taken for free. The original items will still behave as normal: once an item is chosen, the others will disappear.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Only one duplicate can be taken.
* (Removed in Repentance) Picking up multiple copies of items that can cause Isaac to [transform](/wiki/Transformation "Transformation") will not count towards transformation progress.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Multiple copies of the same item do count towards transformations.
* Using Diplopia on another copy of Diplopia will not work.
* [(Jacob and Esau)](/wiki/Jacob_and_Esau "Jacob and Esau") [Jacob and Esau](/wiki/Jacob_and_Esau "Jacob and Esau") can use this item to duplicate an active item to each have the same active item.
* Tear-boosting items, if stacked, cap at shooting 16 tears at once.


Synergies[]
-----------


* [(20/20)](/wiki/20/20 "20/20") [20/20](/wiki/20/20 "20/20"): Isaac fires 4 tightly-packed tears with no increase in tear delay.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Damage down does not stack.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Book of Virtues)](/wiki/Book_of_Virtues "Book of Virtues") [Book of Virtues](/wiki/Book_of_Virtues "Book of Virtues"): Spawns a special Diplopia wisp on the middle ring. The wisp fires two tears at a time (similar to [(20/20)](/wiki/20/20 "20/20") [20/20](/wiki/20/20 "20/20")) and has increased durability. Using Diplopia also duplicates all of Isaac's other wisps.
* (Removed in Repentance) [(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone"): Isaac fires two lasers simultaneously.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Isaac gains a powered-up version of Brimstone with a unique costume that deals 1.2x damage and has +1 damage. Further copies will add another +1 damage.
* [(Contract From Below)](/wiki/Contract_From_Below "Contract From Below") [Contract From Below](/wiki/Contract_From_Below "Contract From Below"): Triples the drops upon clearing a room.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Damocles)](/wiki/Damocles "Damocles") [Damocles](/wiki/Damocles "Damocles"): Spawns an extra item for each item cloned.
* [(Dr. Fetus)](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus") [Dr. Fetus](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus"): Isaac fires two bombs simultaneously.
* [(Eden's Blessing)](/wiki/Eden%27s_Blessing "Eden's Blessing") [Eden's Blessing](/wiki/Eden%27s_Blessing "Eden's Blessing"): Tears upgrades stack and Isaac gains two items at the start of the next run. Stacks up to 10 times.
* [(Epic Fetus)](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus") [Epic Fetus](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus"): Two missiles drop, one after the other.
* (Removed in Repentance) [(The Inner Eye)](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye") [The Inner Eye](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye"): Isaac fires 6 tears. Tears down stat does not stack.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Isaac fires an additional tear. Tears down stat does not stack.
* [(The Ludovico Technique)](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique") [The Ludovico Technique](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique"): A smaller tear orbits the main tear.
* [(Maw of the Void)](/wiki/Maw_of_the_Void "Maw of the Void") [Maw of the Void](/wiki/Maw_of_the_Void "Maw of the Void"): Increase damage for tears and ring.
* [(Mom's Knife)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife") [Mom's Knife](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife"): Isaac fires two knives simultaneously.
* [(Monstro's Lung)](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung") [Monstro's Lung](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung"): The tear burst gains another 10 tears, nearly doubling in size. Stacks up to 5 times.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Mutant Spider)](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") [Mutant Spider](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider"): Isaac fires 8 tears. Tears down stat does not stack.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Isaac fires 2 additional tears. Tear down stat does not stack.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Schoolbag)](/wiki/Schoolbag "Schoolbag") [Schoolbag](/wiki/Schoolbag "Schoolbag") + any active item: While there is no use in duplicating the Schoolbag, it gives Isaac a use for duplicating an active item.
* (Removed in Repentance) [(Steam Sale)](/wiki/Steam_Sale "Steam Sale") [Steam Sale](/wiki/Steam_Sale "Steam Sale"): All items in Shops become free. With [(Restock)](/wiki/Restock "Restock") [Restock](/wiki/Restock "Restock"), items can be infinitely bought for free.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Each additional Steam Sale will further halve the price. Items cannot be reduced below 1 cent.
* [(Technology)](/wiki/Technology "Technology") [Technology](/wiki/Technology "Technology"): Isaac fires two lasers simultaneously.
* [(Tech X)](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X") [Tech X](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X"): Isaac fires two laser rings simultaneously.
* (Removed in Afterbirth †) [(The Wiz)](/wiki/The_Wiz "The Wiz") [The Wiz](/wiki/The_Wiz "The Wiz"): Isaac fires 4 tears diagonally.
	+ (Added in Afterbirth †) Isaac fires 3 tears, one straight ahead and two diagonally.


Interactions[]
--------------


* (Removed in Repentance) [(? Card)](/wiki/%3F_Card "? Card") [? Card](/wiki/%3F_Card "? Card"): Expends both the card and the item with no additional benefit.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Now expends the card without consuming Diplopia, allowing for potential multiple uses.
		- If 2 ? Cards are gathered in the same room, one can be used to duplicate the other, allowing for infinite duplication of everything else in that room.
		- If 3 ? Cards are gathered in the same room, one of them can be used to duplicate infinite ? Cards as well.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Belly Button)](/wiki/Belly_Button "Belly Button") [Belly Button](/wiki/Belly_Button "Belly Button") / [(Mom's Purse)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Purse "Mom's Purse") [Mom's Purse](/wiki/Mom%27s_Purse "Mom's Purse"): Does not allow more than two trinkets to be held at once.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Compound Fracture)](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture") [Compound Fracture](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture"): Range increases twice. No effect on how many bone tears are fired, how many bone shards are fired, or tear height.
* [(Continuum)](/wiki/Continuum "Continuum") [Continuum](/wiki/Continuum "Continuum"): Only increases range further.
* [(Crown of Light)](/wiki/Crown_of_Light "Crown of Light") [Crown of Light](/wiki/Crown_of_Light "Crown of Light"): Only further decreases shot speed and increases range.
* [(Dead Eye)](/wiki/Dead_Eye "Dead Eye") [Dead Eye](/wiki/Dead_Eye "Dead Eye"): The damage multiplier increases twice as fast, but still caps at double damage.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Deep Pockets)](/wiki/Deep_Pockets "Deep Pockets") [Deep Pockets](/wiki/Deep_Pockets "Deep Pockets") / [(Little Baggy)](/wiki/Little_Baggy "Little Baggy") [Little Baggy](/wiki/Little_Baggy "Little Baggy") / (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Polydactyly)](/wiki/Polydactyly "Polydactyly") [Polydactyly](/wiki/Polydactyly "Polydactyly") / [(Starter Deck)](/wiki/Starter_Deck "Starter Deck") [Starter Deck](/wiki/Starter_Deck "Starter Deck"): Does not allow more than two pills or cards to be held at once.
* [(Eve's Mascara)](/wiki/Eve%27s_Mascara "Eve's Mascara") [Eve's Mascara](/wiki/Eve%27s_Mascara "Eve's Mascara"): The damage and tear multipliers do not stack. The shot speed does stack.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Eye of Belial)](/wiki/Eye_of_Belial "Eye of Belial") [Eye of Belial](/wiki/Eye_of_Belial "Eye of Belial"): Only further increases range.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Finger!)](/wiki/Finger! "Finger!") [Finger!](/wiki/Finger! "Finger!"): Spawns two familiars completely overlapping each other.
* [(Godhead)](/wiki/Godhead "Godhead") [Godhead](/wiki/Godhead "Godhead"): Only stat ups and downs compound, but the aura gains no bonus.
* [(Guillotine)](/wiki/Guillotine "Guillotine") [Guillotine](/wiki/Guillotine "Guillotine"): Isaac will have two orbital heads, but only one will fire tears.
* [(Holy Mantle)](/wiki/Holy_Mantle "Holy Mantle") [Holy Mantle](/wiki/Holy_Mantle "Holy Mantle"): An extra effect is added in the room it was found in, but only a single effect will be given in future rooms.
* [(Iron Bar)](/wiki/Iron_Bar "Iron Bar") [Iron Bar](/wiki/Iron_Bar "Iron Bar"): Increases damage but not chance of concussive tears being fired.
* [(Key Piece 1)](/wiki/Key_Piece_1 "Key Piece 1") [Key Piece 1](/wiki/Key_Piece_1 "Key Piece 1"), [(Key Piece 2)](/wiki/Key_Piece_2 "Key Piece 2") [Key Piece 2](/wiki/Key_Piece_2 "Key Piece 2"): Spawns a copy of the same Key Piece. The copy does not increase the chance for an Angel Room.
* [(Kidney Stone)](/wiki/Kidney_Stone "Kidney Stone") [Kidney Stone](/wiki/Kidney_Stone "Kidney Stone"): Only further decreases speed.
* [(Lost Contact)](/wiki/Lost_Contact "Lost Contact") [Lost Contact](/wiki/Lost_Contact "Lost Contact"): Only further decreases shot speed.
* [(Magic Mushroom)](/wiki/Magic_Mushroom "Magic Mushroom") [Magic Mushroom](/wiki/Magic_Mushroom "Magic Mushroom"): Increases all stats twice, but damage significantly less the second time as the 1.5x multipliers do not stack.
* [(Marked)](/wiki/Marked "Marked") [Marked](/wiki/Marked "Marked"): Only increases range and firerate.
* [(Mom's Contacts)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Contacts "Mom's Contacts") [Mom's Contacts](/wiki/Mom%27s_Contacts "Mom's Contacts"): Only increases range.
* [(My Reflection)](/wiki/My_Reflection "My Reflection") [My Reflection](/wiki/My_Reflection "My Reflection"): Only increases range.
* [(Piggy Bank)](/wiki/Piggy_Bank "Piggy Bank") [Piggy Bank](/wiki/Piggy_Bank "Piggy Bank"): Only grants 3 more coins. Does not drop more pennies when taking damage.
* [(Placenta)](/wiki/Placenta "Placenta") [Placenta](/wiki/Placenta "Placenta"): Only increases HP with no change to the regeneration effect.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Pointy Rib)](/wiki/Pointy_Rib "Pointy Rib") [Pointy Rib](/wiki/Pointy_Rib "Pointy Rib"): Spawns two familiars that completely overlap each other.
* [(Purity)](/wiki/Purity "Purity") [Purity](/wiki/Purity "Purity"): No effect. Aura Changes after a second Pickup.
* [(Sacred Heart)](/wiki/Sacred_Heart "Sacred Heart") [Sacred Heart](/wiki/Sacred_Heart "Sacred Heart"): Further decreases tears and shot speed with no increase in damage.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Stop Watch)](/wiki/Stop_Watch "Stop Watch") [Stop Watch](/wiki/Stop_Watch "Stop Watch"): Further increases speed with no further effect on movement speed or shot speed of enemies.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Sulfuric Acid)](/wiki/Sulfuric_Acid "Sulfuric Acid") [Sulfuric Acid](/wiki/Sulfuric_Acid "Sulfuric Acid"): Only further increases damage.
* [(Tractor Beam)](/wiki/Tractor_Beam "Tractor Beam") [Tractor Beam](/wiki/Tractor_Beam "Tractor Beam"): Further increases shot speed, fire rate, and range with no other effects.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Twisted Pair)](/wiki/Twisted_Pair "Twisted Pair") [Twisted Pair](/wiki/Twisted_Pair "Twisted Pair"): Adds two more familiars that float further away from either side of Isaac.


