+++
+++

Effects[]
---------


* +1.5 [tears](/wiki/Tears "Tears").
* (Removed in Repentance) -17.62 [range](/wiki/Range "Range").
* (Added in Repentance) -1.5 [range](/wiki/Range "Range") and -20% [range](/wiki/Range "Range") multiplier.
* +0.76 tear height.
* Tears turn yellow and are fired from Isaac's lower body rather than his head.


Synergies[]
-----------


* [(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") / (Added in Repentance) [(Tainted Azazel)](/wiki/Tainted_Azazel "Tainted Azazel") [Tainted Azazel](/wiki/Tainted_Azazel "Tainted Azazel"): The laser turns yellow and charges at a much faster rate with no decrease to the range.
* [(Epic Fetus)](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus") [Epic Fetus](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus"): Increases fire-rate with no decrease in range. Explosive clouds are now yellow.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(Incubus)](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus") [Incubus](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus"): The Incubus fires at a much faster rate with no decrease to the range.
* [(Ipecac)](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac") [Ipecac](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac"): Increase fire rate moderately and decreases range only slightly.
* [(The Ludovico Technique)](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique") [The Ludovico Technique](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique"): Turns tear yellow and allows it to be moved much faster.
* [(Number One)](/wiki/Number_One "Number One") Number One: Gives an additional fire rate bonus without further reducing range.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Pop!)](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!") [Pop!](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!"): Eyeball tears are yellow, can be fired much quicker, and does not affect their airtime.
* [(Technology)](/wiki/Technology "Technology") [Technology](/wiki/Technology "Technology"): The laser turns yellow and Technology's firing rate is greatly increased with no decrease to the range.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(Tech X)](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X") [Tech X](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X"): Laser turns yellow, charge time is greatly decreased, and no decrease to the range.
* [(Tiny Planet)](/wiki/Tiny_Planet "Tiny Planet") [Tiny Planet](/wiki/Tiny_Planet "Tiny Planet"): Tears travel roughly the same distance but can be fired much quicker.


Interactions[]
--------------


* [(Azazel)](/wiki/Azazel "Azazel") [Azazel](/wiki/Azazel "Azazel"): Lowers range, reduces charge time.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Compound Fracture)](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture") [Compound Fracture](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture") / [(The Parasite)](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite") [The Parasite](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite"): Tears often disappear before being able to split. Split tears also only travel a very short distance.
* [(Cricket's Body)](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body") [Cricket's Body](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body"): Tears disappear **very** quickly after being fired and split tears barely travel at all.
* [(Dr. Fetus)](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus") [Dr. Fetus](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus"): **Not recommended.** Makes bombs travel distance very short. The extremely reduced range can turn simple rooms into a challenge and self-damage a constant concern.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Haemolacria)](/wiki/Haemolacria "Haemolacria") [Haemolacria](/wiki/Haemolacria "Haemolacria"): Does not affect the main tear; however, burst tears travel significantly less far.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(Kidney Stone)](/wiki/Kidney_Stone "Kidney Stone") [Kidney Stone](/wiki/Kidney_Stone "Kidney Stone"): Number One's range penalty overrides Kidney Stone's. The stone is not affected by short range, otherwise the combo behaves as expected.
* [(A Lump of Coal)](/wiki/A_Lump_of_Coal "A Lump of Coal") [A Lump of Coal](/wiki/A_Lump_of_Coal "A Lump of Coal"): Tears still increase in size and damage as they travel; however, the short-ranged distance limits tear size and damage.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(Marked)](/wiki/Marked "Marked") [Marked](/wiki/Marked "Marked"): Tears become orange. The firing rate is increased, Marked's effect is unaffected but the range is reduced.
* [(Mom's Knife)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife") [Mom's Knife](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife"): The knife turns yellow and the maximum range is significantly reduced.
* (Removed in Repentance) [(Monstro's Lung)](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung") [Monstro's Lung](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung") / (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Lead Pencil)](/wiki/Lead_Pencil "Lead Pencil") [Lead Pencil](/wiki/Lead_Pencil "Lead Pencil"): **Not recommended.** Tear barrage disappears very close to Isaac.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Range is more forgiving.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Proptosis)](/wiki/Proptosis "Proptosis") [Proptosis](/wiki/Proptosis "Proptosis"): **Not recommended.** Tears disappear after traveling a very short distance.
	+ (Added in Repentance) This is now fixed and works as expected.
* [(Rubber Cement)](/wiki/Rubber_Cement "Rubber Cement") [Rubber Cement](/wiki/Rubber_Cement "Rubber Cement"): Tears often disappear before being able to bounce off walls.
* [(Toothpicks)](/wiki/Toothpicks "Toothpicks") [Toothpicks](/wiki/Toothpicks "Toothpicks"): Tears become orange.


