+++
+++

Effects[]
---------


* After every 15 tears fired, Isaac will fire a low range Monstro's Lung -like barrage of 12 tears.
	+ (Removed in Repentance) Tears in the barrage deal double damage.
* Tears will fire only from Isaac's right eye.
* (Added in Repentance) Fired tears have a 50% chance to be colored red.


Notes[]
-------


* Lead Pencil gives characters other than  [(Cain)](/wiki/Cain "Cain") [Cain](/wiki/Cain "Cain") the same special properties that he has when it comes to one-eye items like [(Blood Clot)](/wiki/Blood_Clot "Blood Clot") [Blood Clot](/wiki/Blood_Clot "Blood Clot").
* (Removed in Repentance) Tears fired from items that cause multiple tears to be fired at once e.g. [(20/20)](/wiki/20/20 "20/20") [20/20](/wiki/20/20 "20/20"), [(Monstro's Lung)](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung") [Monstro's Lung](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung"), etc. are counted.


Synergies[]
-----------


* [(Compound Fracture)](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture") [Compound Fracture](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture")/[(Cricket's Body)](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body") [Cricket's Body](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body")/[(The Parasite)](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite") [The Parasite](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite"): All tears from the barrage split.
* [(Haemolacria)](/wiki/Haemolacria "Haemolacria") [Haemolacria](/wiki/Haemolacria "Haemolacria"): Fires a barrage of Haemolacria tears, all of which will burst.
* [(Lachryphagy)](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy") [Lachryphagy](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy"): Tears tend to clump together, becoming one giant tear which splits into 8 large tears. When tears burst, they can also spawn barrages of tears that can be fed.
* [(Pop!)](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!") [Pop!](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!"): Causes burst tears to remain in the room for much longer, forming a soft barrier of sorts, which enemies must survive through to reach Isaac.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Torn Card)](/wiki/Torn_Card "Torn Card") [Torn Card](/wiki/Torn_Card "Torn Card"): Decreases shot requirement by 1. Lead Pencil will fire every 14th shot, with Torn Card quickly following at 15th.
* [(Trisagion)](/wiki/Trisagion "Trisagion") [Trisagion](/wiki/Trisagion "Trisagion"): Fires a barrage of beams.
* (Added in Repentance)[(The Scooper)](/wiki/The_Scooper "The Scooper") [The Scooper](/wiki/The_Scooper "The Scooper"): All tears benefit from the damage bonus granted by The Scooper.


Interactions[]
--------------


* (Removed in Repentance)[(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone"): Overrides Lead Pencil.
	+ (Added in Repentance) The effect from Lead Pencil fires as separate tears from [(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone").
* [(Dr. Fetus)](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus") [Dr. Fetus](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus"): Overrides Lead Pencil.
	+ (Added in Repentance) The Lead Pencil tears fire alongside the bombs.
* [(Epic Fetus)](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus") [Epic Fetus](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus"): Overrides Lead Pencil.
* (Removed in Repentance) [(Lilith)](/wiki/Lilith "Lilith") [Lilith](/wiki/Lilith "Lilith"): No effect, as Lilith is inherently Blindfolded.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Firing with [(Incubus)](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus") [Incubus](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus") will now activate Lead Pencil.
* [(Loki's Horns)](/wiki/Loki%27s_Horns "Loki's Horns") [Loki's Horns](/wiki/Loki%27s_Horns "Loki's Horns"): Lead Pencil can fire in any of the cardinal directions if it fires at the same time as Loki's Horns.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(The Ludovico Technique)](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique") [The Ludovico Technique](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique"): The tear blinks red, but the effect is entirely cosmetic.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Isaac's body will fire the lead pencil shot toward where the controlled tear is located at a regular time interval
* [(Incubus)](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus") [Incubus](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus"): Fires red tears like Blood Clot with Cain, but without increased damage.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Incubus is capable of firing the barrage of tears like Isaac.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Mom's Knife)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife") [Mom's Knife](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife"): Overrides Lead Pencil.
	+ (Added in Repentance) A barrage of tears is fired alongside [(Mom's Knife)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife") [Mom's Knife](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife") every 15 Knife throws.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Technology)](/wiki/Technology "Technology") [Technology](/wiki/Technology "Technology"): Overrides Lead Pencil.
	+ (Added in Repentance) A barrage of tears is fired alongside [(Technology)](/wiki/Technology "Technology") [Technology](/wiki/Technology "Technology") every 15 shots.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Technology 2)](/wiki/Technology_2 "Technology 2") [Technology 2](/wiki/Technology_2 "Technology 2"): Overrides Lead Pencil and disables normal tears entirely, even if not playing as Cain.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Replaces tears with lasers similar to Technology. These are shot from the eye that shoots Technology 2, dealing damage alongside the Technology 2 beam.
* [(Tech X)](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X") [Tech X](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X"): Overrides Lead Pencil.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Every 15th laser ring fired also shoots a cluster of tears.
* [(Tiny Planet)](/wiki/Tiny_Planet "Tiny Planet") [Tiny Planet](/wiki/Tiny_Planet "Tiny Planet"): The burst follows Tiny Planet's circular trajectory with minimal range, hitting the ground almost immediately.


