+++
+++

Effects[]
---------


* During the transition between floors, Isaac's nightmare shows the item that will be found in the [Treasure Room](/wiki/Treasure_Room "Treasure Room") and what [Boss](/wiki/Boss "Boss") will be at the end of the floor.
	+ [Blind](/wiki/Curse_of_the_Blind "Curse of the Blind") items will be revealed, including those in the alternative route.
* Grants half a soul heart upon entering a new floor.


Notes[]
-------


* On XL floors, both items and bosses are shown.
* If the floor Isaac is going to have no Treasure Rooms, Dream Catcher will simply show the floor's boss.
* On [(Corpse)](/wiki/Corpse "Corpse") [Corpse](/wiki/Corpse "Corpse") II, and on the special [(Mausoleum)](/wiki/Mausoleum "Mausoleum") [Mausoleum](/wiki/Mausoleum "Mausoleum")/[(Gehenna)](/wiki/Gehenna "Gehenna") [Gehenna](/wiki/Gehenna "Gehenna") II floor that leads to [(Home)](/wiki/Home "Home") [Home](/wiki/Home "Home"), the boss will appear as [Larry Jr.](/wiki/Larry_Jr. "Larry Jr.")
* At [(Home)](/wiki/Home "Home") [Home](/wiki/Home "Home"), the dream will instantly be skipped.
* On [(The Void)](/wiki/The_Void "The Void") [The Void](/wiki/The_Void "The Void"), the Dream Catcher will show all the bosses that can be found in the various boss rooms, starting with [Delirium](/wiki/Delirium "Delirium").
* Dream Catcher cannot show glitched items generated by [(TMTRAINER)](/wiki/TMTRAINER "TMTRAINER") [TMTRAINER](/wiki/TMTRAINER "TMTRAINER"). Instead, it will just show [(The Sad Onion)](/wiki/The_Sad_Onion "The Sad Onion") [The Sad Onion](/wiki/The_Sad_Onion "The Sad Onion").
* Dream Catcher will show a poop in the Treasure Room if there are no item pedestals in the room.
* Half soul heart *will* be granted for each floor of the [Ascent](/wiki/Dad%27s_Note "Dad's Note").


Interactions[]
--------------


* [(Devil's Crown)](/wiki/Devil%27s_Crown "Devil's Crown") [Devil's Crown](/wiki/Devil%27s_Crown "Devil's Crown"): Dream Catcher will show what the Treasure Room will have if Isaac chooses to enter the room without the crown.
* [(More Options)](/wiki/More_Options "More Options") [More Options](/wiki/More_Options "More Options"): Dream Catcher will not show the third item if going to alt path.
* [(Red Key)](/wiki/Red_Key "Red Key") [Red Key](/wiki/Red_Key "Red Key"): When on alt path if a bonus Treasure Room is encountered before the regular Treasure Room, the left item from the dream sequence will appear as part that reward pool, but the right (?) item will still be in the regular Treasure Room.


