+++
+++

Effects[]
---------


* (Removed in Repentance)Shooting tears sometimes spawns a fire similar to [(Red Candle)](/wiki/Red_Candle "Red Candle") [Red Candle](/wiki/Red_Candle "Red Candle"), damaging enemies and destroying shots it comes into contact with.
* (Added in Repentance)Shooting tears sometimes spawns a blue fire similar to [(The Candle)](/wiki/The_Candle "The Candle") [The Candle](/wiki/The_Candle "The Candle"), damaging enemies and destroying shots it comes into contact with. It lasts on the ground for a limited time and can pass through obstacles.
* Creating farts through items/pills such as [Re-Lax](/wiki/Re-Lax "Re-Lax"), [(The Poop)](/wiki/The_Poop "The Poop") [The Poop](/wiki/The_Poop "The Poop"), [(Butter Bean)](/wiki/Butter_Bean "Butter Bean") [Butter Bean](/wiki/Butter_Bean "Butter Bean"), and etc. causes fire to shoot out alongside the fart.
	+ (Removed in Repentance) The only exception to this is the farts generated by [(Butt Penny)](/wiki/Butt_Penny "Butt Penny") [Butt Penny](/wiki/Butt_Penny "Butt Penny").
* (Added in Repentance)The fire deals 3x to 6x of Isaac's damage, depending on the size of the flame.
* The fire can destroy [Shopkeepers](/wiki/Shopkeeper "Shopkeeper").
* Enemies with fire variants will change to their variants when they get hit with the flame.


Notes[]
-------


* (Removed in Repentance) The chance of spawning fire is not affected by [luck](/wiki/Luck "Luck").
* (Added in Repentance) The fire is affected by luck. The activation rate is equal to 1/(12 - Luck). At base luck (0), the chance is 8.33%, maxing out at 50% at 10 luck.


Synergies[]
-----------


* (Added in Repentance)[(Bird's Eye)](/wiki/Bird%27s_Eye "Bird's Eye") [Bird's Eye](/wiki/Bird%27s_Eye "Bird's Eye"): Changes the activation rate to 1/(8 - Luck). At base luck (0), the chance is 12.5%, maxing out at 100% at 7 luck. Only one type of fire can be spawned at a time, however each flame has an equal chance of being launched.
* (Removed in Repentance) [(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone"): The flames can still shoot from Isaac while holding the fire button.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Occasionally emits a flame while the beam is firing.
* [(Butter Bean)](/wiki/Butter_Bean "Butter Bean") [Butter Bean](/wiki/Butter_Bean "Butter Bean"), [(Mega Bean)](/wiki/Mega_Bean "Mega Bean") [Mega Bean](/wiki/Mega_Bean "Mega Bean"), [(The Black Bean)](/wiki/The_Black_Bean "The Black Bean") [The Black Bean](/wiki/The_Black_Bean "The Black Bean"), [(Wait What?)](/wiki/Wait_What%3F "Wait What?") [Wait What?](/wiki/Wait_What%3F "Wait What?"): Will spawn fires upon use/activation.
* [(Dr. Fetus)](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus") [Dr. Fetus](/wiki/Dr._Fetus "Dr. Fetus"): Fires can be spawned while firing bombs.
* [(Epic Fetus)](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus") [Epic Fetus](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus"): Fires can be spawned while moving the crosshair.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Farting Baby)](/wiki/Farting_Baby "Farting Baby") [Farting Baby](/wiki/Farting_Baby "Farting Baby"): The familiar has a chance to spawn a flame upon farting.
* [(Ipecac)](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac") [Ipecac](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac"): Fires are spawned as normal and can be hit by Ipecac tears, making this especially dangerous with a multi-shot ability.
* [(Mom's Knife)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife") [Mom's Knife](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife"): The flames can still shoot from Isaac while holding the fire button.
	+ (Added in Repentance)Occasionally spawns a fire when fired.
* [(Monstro's Lung)](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung") [Monstro's Lung](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung"): The flames can still shoot from Isaac while holding the fire button.
* [(The Poop)](/wiki/The_Poop "The Poop") [The Poop](/wiki/The_Poop "The Poop"): Fire will appear behind Isaac.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Pupula Duplex)](/wiki/Pupula_Duplex "Pupula Duplex") [Pupula Duplex](/wiki/Pupula_Duplex "Pupula Duplex"): The fires gain a large size and duration increase.
* [(Technology)](/wiki/Technology "Technology") [Technology](/wiki/Technology "Technology"): Will occasionally spawn a fire. The lasers will not douse the flames.
* [(Tech X)](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X") [Tech X](/wiki/Tech_X "Tech X"): Will occasionally spawn a fire while firing lasers. Laser rings will not douse the flames.
* [(Trisagion)](/wiki/Trisagion "Trisagion") [Trisagion](/wiki/Trisagion "Trisagion"): Will occasionally spawn a fire while firing beams. Fires damage is not reduced.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Urn of Souls)](/wiki/Urn_of_Souls "Urn of Souls") [Urn of Souls](/wiki/Urn_of_Souls "Urn of Souls"): Causes the Urn to emit Ghost Pepper's flames in addition to its regular flames.


Interactions[]
--------------


* [(20/20)](/wiki/20/20 "20/20") [20/20](/wiki/20/20 "20/20")/[(The Inner Eye)](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye") [The Inner Eye](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye")/[(Mutant Spider)](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") [Mutant Spider](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider"): Will only spawn one fire.
* [(Anti-Gravity)](/wiki/Anti-Gravity "Anti-Gravity") [Anti-Gravity](/wiki/Anti-Gravity "Anti-Gravity"): When holding down the fire button, when fire spawns it will be almost immediately put out by the clumps of tears.
* [(Blood Clot)](/wiki/Blood_Clot "Blood Clot") [Blood Clot](/wiki/Blood_Clot "Blood Clot"): No effect.
* [(Compound Fracture)](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture") [Compound Fracture](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture")/[(Cricket's Body)](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body") [Cricket's Body](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body")/[(The Parasite)](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite") [The Parasite](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite"): Fires cannot split.
* [Homing tears](/wiki/Homing_tears "Homing tears"): Flames will not be homing.
* [(Incubus)](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus") [Incubus](/wiki/Incubus "Incubus")/(Added in Repentance)[(Twisted Pair)](/wiki/Twisted_Pair "Twisted Pair") [Twisted Pair](/wiki/Twisted_Pair "Twisted Pair")/(Added in Repentance)[(Gello)](/wiki/Gello "Gello") [Gello](/wiki/Gello "Gello"): Will not spawn fire by themselves, Isaac will spawn an additional fire instead of the familiar.
* [(Lachryphagy)](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy") [Lachryphagy](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy"): Feeding tears will quickly douse the flames.
* (Added in Repentance)  [(Lilith)](/wiki/Lilith "Lilith") [Lilith](/wiki/Lilith "Lilith"): Spawns fire from her mouth.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(The Ludovico Technique)](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique") [The Ludovico Technique](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique"): Fires created from Ghost Pepper will destroy the tear and cause it to respawn on Isaac.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Isaac now periodically creates fires that shoot towards the Ludovico Technique tear.
* [(A Lump of Coal)](/wiki/A_Lump_of_Coal "A Lump of Coal") [A Lump of Coal](/wiki/A_Lump_of_Coal "A Lump of Coal"): Affects normal tears but no effect on fire.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Pop!)](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!") [Pop!](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!"): Eyeballs tears quickly douse flames.
* [(Proptosis)](/wiki/Proptosis "Proptosis") [Proptosis](/wiki/Proptosis "Proptosis"): Flames will not lose damage or shrink as they travel.
* (Removed in Repentance)[(Soy Milk)](/wiki/Soy_Milk "Soy Milk") [Soy Milk](/wiki/Soy_Milk "Soy Milk"): No effect on frequency or damage of flames.
* [(Sprinkler)](/wiki/Sprinkler "Sprinkler") [Sprinkler](/wiki/Sprinkler "Sprinkler"): The sprinkler will not spawn flames.


