+++
+++

Effects[]
---------


* While in a room with enemies, creates a trail of tears that Isaac drags behind him.
	+ Each tear deals 3.5 damage, regardless of Isaac's damage.
	+ The shorter the trail of tears is, the faster it grows.
	+ The trail is composed of 20 tears at max length.
* Once the room is cleared, the trail will remain but will stop regenerating.
* Another trail of tears may appear if the trail is cut in the middle.


Synergies[]
-----------


* [(Angelic Prism)](/wiki/Angelic_Prism "Angelic Prism") [Angelic Prism](/wiki/Angelic_Prism "Angelic Prism"): Splits the trail of tears into four multi-colored chains.
* [(Lachryphagy)](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy") [Lachryphagy](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy"): Some Akeldama tears will absorb tears shot by Isaac and gain size and damage as expected, but will not burst from being overloaded and can be fed infinite amount of tears. Meaning that each tear, if fed enough, can deal massive amounts of damage.
* [(Lodestone)](/wiki/Lodestone "Lodestone") [Lodestone](/wiki/Lodestone "Lodestone"): Magnetized enemies will attract the tears from Akeldama's trail, making it easier to use.
* [(Multidimensional Baby)](/wiki/Multidimensional_Baby "Multidimensional Baby") [Multidimensional Baby](/wiki/Multidimensional_Baby "Multidimensional Baby"): Akeldama tears that passes through Multidimensional baby will be cloned and may also create a separate trail if enough tears are cloned.
* [(Tear Detonator)](/wiki/Tear_Detonator "Tear Detonator") [Tear Detonator](/wiki/Tear_Detonator "Tear Detonator"): Will burst tears generated by Akeldama into Isaac's current tears.
* [(Technology Zero)](/wiki/Technology_Zero "Technology Zero") [Technology Zero](/wiki/Technology_Zero "Technology Zero"): Shot tears will create a laser between it and the Akeldama tear closest to Isaac.


Interactions[]
--------------


* [(Anti-Gravity)](/wiki/Anti-Gravity "Anti-Gravity") [Anti-Gravity](/wiki/Anti-Gravity "Anti-Gravity"): Akeldama tears are unaffected by Anti-Gravity.
* [(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone"): Akeldama creates normal tears.
* [(Godhead)](/wiki/Godhead "Godhead") [Godhead](/wiki/Godhead "Godhead"): Akeldama tears do not have the aura
* [(Ipecac)](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac") [Ipecac](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac"): Akeldama creates normal tears.
* [(Pop!)](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!") [Pop!](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!"): Akeldama blocks the eyeballs created by [(Pop!)](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!") [Pop!](/wiki/Pop! "Pop!"), making it quite difficult to hit enemies.
* [(Scissors)](/wiki/Scissors "Scissors") [Scissors](/wiki/Scissors "Scissors"): The trail will follow Isaac's body


