+++
+++

Effects[]
---------


* Once activated, all tears in the air split into 6 more tears in all directions, which retain their damage, and shot speed.
	+ Luck-based effects from items such as [(Tough Love)](/wiki/Tough_Love "Tough Love") [Tough Love](/wiki/Tough_Love "Tough Love") or [(Holy Light)](/wiki/Holy_Light "Holy Light") [Holy Light](/wiki/Holy_Light "Holy Light") are applied individually to each tear.


Synergies[]
-----------


* (Added in Repentance)[(Akeldama)](/wiki/Akeldama "Akeldama") [Akeldama](/wiki/Akeldama "Akeldama"): Will bust tears generated by Akeldama into Isaac's current tears.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Angelic Prism)](/wiki/Angelic_Prism "Angelic Prism") [Angelic Prism](/wiki/Angelic_Prism "Angelic Prism"): Tears that are split by the prism can be split again by Tear Detonator.
* [(Anti-Gravity)](/wiki/Anti-Gravity "Anti-Gravity") [Anti-Gravity](/wiki/Anti-Gravity "Anti-Gravity"): All tears currently floating in the air will be multiplied, resulting in a massive amount of tears.
* (Added in Repentance)[(Book of Virtues)](/wiki/Book_of_Virtues "Book of Virtues") [Book of Virtues](/wiki/Book_of_Virtues "Book of Virtues"): Spawns wisps on the middle ring. The wisps' tears are also detonated into 6 tears; the resulting tears are based on Isaac's own, rather than the wisps'. Created wisps trigger Tear Detonator's effect when destroyed. Despite Tear Detonator having a timed recharge, the wisps persist between rooms.
* [(Car Battery)](/wiki/Car_Battery "Car Battery") [Car Battery](/wiki/Car_Battery "Car Battery"): Multiplies the tears, effectively creating dozens of tears.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Compound Fracture)](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture") [Compound Fracture](/wiki/Compound_Fracture "Compound Fracture")/[(Cricket's Body)](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body") [Cricket's Body](/wiki/Cricket%27s_Body "Cricket's Body")/[(The Parasite)](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite") [The Parasite](/wiki/The_Parasite "The Parasite"): Tears that are split can split again into burst tears.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Haemolacria)](/wiki/Haemolacria "Haemolacria") [Haemolacria](/wiki/Haemolacria "Haemolacria"): Splits tears into 6 Haemolacria tears that burst into split tears. If split tears are burst, all of them will split into 6 Haemolacria tears creating an enormous amount of tears when the main tear splits again.
* [(Ipecac)](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac") [Ipecac](/wiki/Ipecac "Ipecac"): All tears will split into 6 explosive tears, making it very powerful (but also dangerous unless Isaac has [(Host Hat)](/wiki/Host_Hat "Host Hat") [Host Hat](/wiki/Host_Hat "Host Hat") or [(Pyromaniac)](/wiki/Pyromaniac "Pyromaniac") [Pyromaniac](/wiki/Pyromaniac "Pyromaniac")).
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Lachryphagy)](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy") [Lachryphagy](/wiki/Lachryphagy "Lachryphagy"): Similar to the Haemolacria synergy, if the main tear splits, 6 tears will spawn that can be fed. However, if burst tears are split, all burst tears will split into 6 tears resulting in an enormous amount of tears that are likely to feed each other.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Lead Pencil)](/wiki/Lead_Pencil "Lead Pencil") [Lead Pencil](/wiki/Lead_Pencil "Lead Pencil"): Each of the tears explodes into 6 smaller tears.
* [(The Ludovico Technique)](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique") [The Ludovico Technique](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique"): The tear explodes into six smaller tears, then reappears next to the player.
* [(My Reflection)](/wiki/My_Reflection "My Reflection") [My Reflection](/wiki/My_Reflection "My Reflection"): The shrapnel tears will curve back to the location of the original detonated tear.
* [(Sad Bombs)](/wiki/Sad_Bombs "Sad Bombs") [Sad Bombs](/wiki/Sad_Bombs "Sad Bombs"): Bomb tears are multiplied.
* [Shooting familiars](/wiki/Shooting_familiar "Shooting familiar"): Shooting familiars' tears explode into Isaac's tears, with his actual damage and effects.
* [(Tiny Planet)](/wiki/Tiny_Planet "Tiny Planet") [Tiny Planet](/wiki/Tiny_Planet "Tiny Planet"): Tears split, and then orbit around where the tear was originally from, three spinning clockwise, three counterclockwise.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Trisagion)](/wiki/Trisagion "Trisagion") [Trisagion](/wiki/Trisagion "Trisagion"): Tears split into six beams.


Interactions[]
--------------


* [(Chocolate Milk)](/wiki/Chocolate_Milk "Chocolate Milk") [Chocolate Milk](/wiki/Chocolate_Milk "Chocolate Milk"): No matter how charged the tears are, split tears always deal a tiny amount of damage.
* [(Explosivo)](/wiki/Explosivo "Explosivo") [Explosivo](/wiki/Explosivo "Explosivo"): Tears that are stuck to enemies will not deal explosion damage; tears released by it may be sticky tears that immediately stick back onto the enemy.


