+++
+++

Effect[]
--------


* Isaac fires two tears at once, one from each eye.
* (Added in Repentance) 0.75x [damage](/wiki/Damage "Damage") multiplier.


Notes[]
-------


* Unlike other multiple shot items like [(Mutant Spider)](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") [Mutant Spider](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") or [(The Inner Eye)](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye") [The Inner Eye](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye"), 20/20 does not reduce the rate of fire.
* The maximum amount of tears per volley that can be reached by combining and/or duplicating 20/20, [(The Inner Eye)](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye") [The Inner Eye](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye"), [(Mutant Spider)](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") [Mutant Spider](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") and (Added in Afterbirth)[(The Wiz)](/wiki/The_Wiz "The Wiz") [The Wiz](/wiki/The_Wiz "The Wiz") is 16, or 20 with the  [(Keeper)](/wiki/Keeper "Keeper") [Keeper](/wiki/Keeper "Keeper").


Synergies[]
-----------


* [(Blood Clot)](/wiki/Blood_Clot "Blood Clot") [Blood Clot](/wiki/Blood_Clot "Blood Clot") / [(Chemical Peel)](/wiki/Chemical_Peel "Chemical Peel") [Chemical Peel](/wiki/Chemical_Peel "Chemical Peel"): Every second row of tears has increased damage.
* (Added in Afterbirth) [(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone"): Two Brimstone shots are fired, without an increase in charge time.
* (Added in Afterbirth / Removed in Repentance)[(Diplopia)](/wiki/Diplopia "Diplopia") [Diplopia](/wiki/Diplopia "Diplopia"): Every additional 20/20 adds 2 more tears in a tight pattern.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Adds one more tear without further lowering damage.
* (Added in Afterbirth) [(Doctor's Remote)](/wiki/Doctor%27s_Remote "Doctor's Remote") [Doctor's Remote](/wiki/Doctor%27s_Remote "Doctor's Remote") / [(Epic Fetus)](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus") [Epic Fetus](/wiki/Epic_Fetus "Epic Fetus"): Replaces the single missile strike with a barrage of two consecutive missiles.
* (Added in Afterbirth / Removed in Repentance) [(The Inner Eye)](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye") [The Inner Eye](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye") / [(Mutant Spider)](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") [Mutant Spider](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider"): Adds two/three tears to each shot, with no extra fire rate decrease.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Removes the fire rate penalty while reducing damage to 75%. Additional copies will add one additional tear with no further change to damage/fire rate.
* (Added in Afterbirth / Removed in Repentance)  [(Keeper)](/wiki/Keeper "Keeper") [Keeper](/wiki/Keeper "Keeper"): Fires 5 tears with no fire rate decrease.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Decreases tears' spread. Reduces damage dealt to 75%, but makes his base tear stat equal 2.73. This is a damage per second increase if tear rate before picking up was less than 3.75; otherwise this is a damage per second decrease.
* [(The Ludovico Technique)](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique") [The Ludovico Technique](/wiki/The_Ludovico_Technique "The Ludovico Technique"): The Ludovico tear gains one smaller tear orbiting the main one, each dealing the same amount of damage.
* (Added in Afterbirth) [(Monstro's Lung)](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung") [Monstro's Lung](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung"): Adds two tears to the tear barrage, for a total of 16.
* [(Polyphemus)](/wiki/Polyphemus "Polyphemus") [Polyphemus](/wiki/Polyphemus "Polyphemus"): Removes the fire rate penalty from Polyphemus and still fires 2 tears each shot with a smaller damage up.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Sprinkler)](/wiki/Sprinkler "Sprinkler") [Sprinkler](/wiki/Sprinkler "Sprinkler"): Fires two tears at once that almost completely overlap each other.
* (Added in Repentance)  [(Tainted Keeper)](/wiki/Tainted_Keeper "Tainted Keeper") [Tainted Keeper](/wiki/Tainted_Keeper "Tainted Keeper"): Decreases tears' spread. Reduces damage dealt to 75%, but makes his base tear stat equal 2.73. This is a damage per second increase if tear rate before picking up was less than 3.75; otherwise this is a damage per second decrease.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(Technology)](/wiki/Technology "Technology") [Technology](/wiki/Technology "Technology"): Fires two technology shots simultaneously.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(Tractor Beam)](/wiki/Tractor_Beam "Tractor Beam") [Tractor Beam](/wiki/Tractor_Beam "Tractor Beam"): Both tears are fired along the beam. Only one tear can be seen, as they overlap each other.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(The Wiz)](/wiki/The_Wiz "The Wiz") [The Wiz](/wiki/The_Wiz "The Wiz"): Two tears are fired in each direction.


Interactions[]
--------------


* (Removed in Afterbirth) [(Brimstone)](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone") [Brimstone](/wiki/Brimstone "Brimstone"): Overrides 20/20.
* (Removed in Afterbirth) [(The Inner Eye)](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye") [The Inner Eye](/wiki/The_Inner_Eye "The Inner Eye"): Overrides 20/20.
* (Added in Afterbirth)[(Kidney Stone)](/wiki/Kidney_Stone "Kidney Stone") [Kidney Stone](/wiki/Kidney_Stone "Kidney Stone"): Increase number of tears in tear barrage; however, only fires one stone.
* [(Loki's Horns)](/wiki/Loki%27s_Horns "Loki's Horns") [Loki's Horns](/wiki/Loki%27s_Horns "Loki's Horns"): Only occasionally fires one tear in the other three directions.
* [(Mom's Eye)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Eye "Mom's Eye") [Mom's Eye](/wiki/Mom%27s_Eye "Mom's Eye"): Only occasionally fires one tear out of the back of Isaac's head.
* (Removed in Afterbirth) [(Mom's Knife)](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife") [Mom's Knife](/wiki/Mom%27s_Knife "Mom's Knife"): Overrides 20/20.
* (Removed in Afterbirth) [(Monstro's Lung)](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung") [Monstro's Lung](/wiki/Monstro%27s_Lung "Monstro's Lung"): Overrides 20/20.
* (Removed in Afterbirth) [(Mutant Spider)](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider") [Mutant Spider](/wiki/Mutant_Spider "Mutant Spider"): Overrides 20/20.
	+ (Added in Repentance) Cancels the tears down of Mutant Spider.
* [(Sad Bombs)](/wiki/Sad_Bombs "Sad Bombs") [Sad Bombs](/wiki/Sad_Bombs "Sad Bombs"): Does not affect the number of tears when bombs explode.
* (Removed in Afterbirth) [(Technology)](/wiki/Technology "Technology") [Technology](/wiki/Technology "Technology"): Overrides 20/20.
* (Added in Afterbirth †)[(Varicose Veins)](/wiki/Varicose_Veins "Varicose Veins") [Varicose Veins](/wiki/Varicose_Veins "Varicose Veins"): No effect on number of tears when taking damage.


